Java/Android Project Definitions - Solo Project

To-Do List

Goal: Practice what we learned in the Java / Android weeks and research how to persist data.

MVP

You are required to write an Android app which will allow the user to maintain a task list. The user should be able to enter tasks and display them in a list. The list should only show the bare details of each task. Selecting a task from the list should bring up another screen which shows full details of the task. Users should also be able to mark tasks as completed.

Project Extensions

Allow the user to prioritise and/or categorise tasks
Use the calendar to set due dates on tasks.
Card game

Goal: Create a card game in Android.

Last weekend, for your homework you were asked to create a card game using objects modelled in Java. You are now being asked to take that Java code and use it as the basis for an Android app which plays the same game of cards.

HINT Think of the lessons where we wrote regular Java classes in Android Studio, ran unit tests on them, and then used them in our Eight Ball app.

MVP

The game does not need to have much or any interaction. The aim is to display the results of the Java logic already written. For example, if you had two players being dealt two cards each your screen might look something like:

  Player 1: Ace of Hearts, 9 of Diamonds
  Player 2: 3 of Clubs, 2 of Hearts

  Player 1 Wins!
Project Extensions

Possibly add another card game
Improve the UI
Fantasy Zoo Manager

Goal: Practice OO modelling in Java (unit tests, no UI)

You have been asked to create a zoo management app so that we can manage our dragons, unicorns and other mystical beings.

MVP

The user must be able to add enclosures, add / remove animals, feed animals and anything else you can dream up!

Project Extensions

Animals cannot be placed in the same enclosure if they would eat one and other.
Animal babies can be sold(!) to other zoos :/
Visitors can enter / exit the zoo if there are tickets left.
View the total income for the zoo.
Animals can randomly go on a rampage and break out of their enclosures
Food Tracker

Goal: Practice OO and UI design with what we learned in Java / Android weeks

MVP

You are required to write an Android app that allows a user to track the food they eat. Users should be able to enter what they eat and when (date/time) and for what meal.

Project Extension

The app should show the user a record of what they have eaten over a given period e.g. In March I drank lots of Irn-Bru.

Shop

Goal: Practice OO modelling in Java (unit tests, no UI)

You are required to build an app that allows a Shop to sell goods to a Customer. Stock and items are not important.

MVP

The Shop must be able to:

Make a Sale
The customer funds go down, shop sales go up
Give a refund
The customer funds go up, shop refunds go up
Report on income
Total sales minus total refunds
The Customer must:

Have a collection of possible Payment Methods:
CreditCard (default), DebitCard
Be able to select a Payment Method to pay at any Shop
Be able to select a Payment Method to recieve a refund onto a given Payment Method
(You may find HashMaps useful for this project)

Project Extensions

Add stock tracking
General Rules (Applies to ALL projects)

DO NOT USE ANY FRAMEWORKS - this includes Java Swing and similar packages. If in any doubt ask an instructor.
There will still be stand-up at 9am every morning (10am on Friday) - you are still expected to be in every day during the project.
If you have an idea for a project outwith the specs defined above then please discuss this with the instructors before going ahead.